Added "What's New in DevTools (Microsoft Edge 99)" (#1779)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/whats-new/2022/03/devtools.md

---
title: What's new in DevTools (Microsoft Edge 99)
description: Host source maps on Azure DevOps Symbol Server to debug your original source code securely.  Use source maps to unminify performance profiles.  DevTools extension now for Microsoft Visual Studio.  3D View tool replaces Layers tool.  Improved accessibility in Network Console and 3D View tools.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.date: 03/04/2022
---
# What's New in DevTools (Microsoft Edge 99)

> The following sections list the announcements from the Microsoft Edge DevTools team.  To try the latest features of DevTools and the Microsoft Edge DevTools extension for Visual Studio Code, read these announcements.  To stay up to date with the latest and greatest features in your developer tools, download the [Microsoft Edge preview channels](https://www.microsoftedgeinsider.com/download) and [follow the Microsoft Edge DevTools team on Twitter](https://twitter.com/EdgeDevTools).

Reviewer: As there is no announcement about the VS Code extension, but the VS one in this what's new, this feels weird. How about we make it future proof by changing it to:

To try the latest features of DevTools and extension for editors using them, read these announcements.

If you are on Windows, Linux, or macOS, consider using the Canary preview channel of Microsoft Edge as your default development browser.  The preview channels give you access to the latest features of Microsoft Edge DevTools.

> 

Reviewer: This would also be a good opportunity to promote the new repo: 

"If you want to report a problem with DevTools or ask for a new feature, you can [file an issue](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/DevTools/issues/new/choose) on the [GitHub Edge DevTools repository](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/DevTools)."

## Securely debug your production code with source maps from Azure Artifacts Symbol Server

<!-- Title: Debug JavaScript with source maps more easily -->
<!-- Subtitle: Publish your source maps to Azure Artifacts Symbol Server and connect DevTools to it for an easier debugging experience. -->

Azure Artifacts Symbol Server now supports storing the source maps that your build process produces when compiling, minifying, and bundling your code.  Instead of hosting source maps on your public server, you can now publish your source maps to the secure Azure Artifacts Symbol Server.  Then, connect DevTools to Symbol Server to have DevTools automatically fetch your source maps. 

By using source maps, you can see and debug your original source code in DevTools, rather than having to work with the compiled, minified, and bundled production code that's returned by your server.  Hosting your source maps on the Azure Artifacts Symbol Server allows you to see and work with your source code securely and privately, instead of placing your source maps on your server and revealing your original code publicly.

To try this feature:

> 1. Publish your source maps to Azure Artifacts Symbol Server.

Reviewer 2: I think it would be nice if we linked this line, or some part of it, to the same location as the 2nd bullet in the See Also section below. E.g.:

```md
1. [Publish your source maps](../../../javascript/publish-source-maps-to-azure.md) to Azure Artifacts Symbol Server.
```

The **Inspect tool** (![Inspect tool icon.](../../media/2022/03/v-s-edge-devtools-inspect-tool-icon.png)) and **Toggle screencast** (![Toggle screencast icon.](../../media/2022/03/v-s-edge-devtools-toggle-screencast-icon.png)) are available, and the **More Tools** (![More Tools icon.](../../media/2022/03/more-tools-v-s-icon.png)) menu offers the [Issues](../../../issues/index.md), [Network conditions](../../../network-conditions/network-conditions-tool.md), and [Network request blocking](../../../network-request-blocking/network-request-blocking-tool.md) tools.

See also:

* [Edge Developer Tools for Visual Studio (Preview)](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/visualstudio/?p=237066&preview=1&_ppp=7aa7aef54f), at Visual Studio DevBlogs.
* [Edge DevTools extension for Visual Studio](../../../../visual-studio/index.md#edge-devtools-extension-for-visual-studio).

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Layers in 3D View

<!-- Title: Layers in 3D View -->
<!-- Subtitle: The Layers tool isn't going away - find it in the 3D View tool today. -->

> Since [Microsoft Edge 88](../../2020/11/devtools.md#composited-layers-are-now-in-3d-view), the **3D View** tool has provided an improved version of the **Layers** tool.  Now, in Microsoft Edge 99, the standalone **Layers** tool has been removed, and contains a link that redirects you to the **Composited Layers** view within the **3D View** tool.  You can find all the functionality from the **Layers** tool in the **3D View** tool.

Reviewer 3: Realizing that "Layers tool has been removed and contains a link..." doesn't really make sense. Let's change it to "Now, in Microsoft Edge 99, the functionality in the standalone **Layers** tool has been removed and instead contains a link redirecting you to the **Composited Layers** view within the **3D View tool. You can find all the features previously in the **Layers** tool and more in the **3D View** tool.

<!-- Title: Layers in 3D View -->
<!-- Subtitle: The Layers tool isn't going away - find it in the 3D View tool today. -->

Since [Microsoft Edge 88](../../2020/11/devtools.md#composited-layers-are-now-in-3d-view), the **3D View** tool has provided an improved version of the **Layers** tool.  Now, in Microsoft Edge 99, the standalone **Layers** tool has been removed, and contains a link that redirects you to the **Composited Layers** view within the **3D View** tool.  You can find all the functionality from the **Layers** tool in the **3D View** tool.

![The Layers tool now links to the 3D View tool with the Composited Layers view open.](../../media/2022/03/layers-3d-view-tool.png)
<!-- work item > layersmove.gif -->

See [Navigate z-index, DOM, and layers using the 3D View tool](../../../3d-view/index.md).

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Use your source maps to unminify performance profiles

<!-- Title: The Performance tool can now display unminified call stacks -->
<!-- Subtitle: Use the new Unminify button in the Performance tool to download an unminified version of the performance profile you recorded. -->

> In previous versions of Microsoft Edge, recording a performance profile in the Performance tool would produce a minified call stack. The call stack was not using source maps, even if you hosted them on your server, to unminify the call stack.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In previous versions of Microsoft Edge, recording a performance profile in the Performance tool would produce a minified call stack. The call stack did not use source maps to unminify the call stack, even if you hosted the source maps on your server.
```

Reviewer 4: @zoherghadyali - please review my suggestion.

Author: Suggestion v3:

Recording a performance profile in the **Performance** tool produces a minified call stack.  In previous versions of Microsoft Edge, the call stack (flame chart) didn't use source maps to display your original function names, even if you hosted the source maps on your server.

Reviewer 5: To match with the docs for this feature, let's just do: 

Recording a performance profile in the Performance tool produces a minified flame chart. In previous versions of Microsoft Edge, the flame chart didn't use source maps to display your original function names, even if you hosted the source maps on your server.

> Starting in Microsoft Edge version 99, you can unminify a call stack in a performance profile, as follows:

Reviewer 4: Title says "Use your source maps to unminify performance profiles" but here we talk about unminifying the call stack. To be consistent, I think we should change the title. 

@zoherghadyali?

Reviewer 5: Yes, I agree with matching the docs for this feature but let's try to keep the title concise. I propose:

title: Use your source maps to display original function names in performance profiles

Starting in Microsoft Edge version 99, you can display your original function names in a performance profile, as follows:

1. After recording a profile, in the **Performance** tool, click the new **Unminify** button.
1. Download the unminified performance profile.<!--how?-->
1. Import the unminified performance profile into the **Performance** tool.<!--how?-->

The **Unminify** button will use source maps, provided that they are hosted side-by-side with your production code, to unminify the call stack in the **Performance** tool.

The minified call stack in the **Performance** tool shows function names as **b**, **O**, **Xt**, and **bn**:

![The minified call stack in the Performance tool.](../../media/2022/03/minified-call-stack-performance-tool.png)
<!-- Image 1: Minified call stack in Performance tool
Navigate to: https://outlook-sdf.office.com/mail/
Open DevTools > Performance
Record a performance profile while scrolling through your inbox
Select a small section of the profile and look at the call stack       1380ms-1400ms
Draw red highlights around function names like n, O, i, Xt, Bn, Yn. It won't be these exactly in your screenshot but you can see these are minified function names
Remember the section of the profile that you are looking at
-->

> The unminified call stack in the **Performance** tool now shows those functions labeled with meaningful names: **invokeFunc (b)**, **executeAction (O)**, **endBatch (Xt)**, and **runReactions (bn)**:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
After clicking **Unminify**, the unminified call stack in the **Performance** tool now shows those functions labeled with meaningful names: **invokeFunc (b)**, **executeAction (O)**, **endBatch (Xt)**, and **runReactions (bn)**:
```

> The unminified call stack in the **Performance** tool now shows those functions labeled with meaningful names: **invokeFunc (b)**, **executeAction (O)**, **endBatch (Xt)**, and **runReactions (bn)**:

Author: @zoherghadyali @captainbrosset @Reezaali - change "call stack" to "flame chart" in this What's New item?  Like per captainbrosset's comments on the Unminify PR.

Reviewer 5: Yes, I agree with that. Flame chart is the correct term

By using source maps, you can see and debug your original source code in DevTools, rather than having to work with the compiled, minified, and bundled production code that's returned by your server.  Hosting your source maps on the Azure Artifacts Symbol Server allows you to see and work with your source code securely and privately, instead of placing your source maps on your server and revealing your original code publicly.

To try this feature:
1. Publish your source maps to Azure Artifacts Symbol Server.
1. Open DevTools > **Settings** > **Symbol Server** and connect DevTools to Azure Artifacts Symbol Server, by entering your Azure DevOps organization and personal access token.

![The 'Symbol Server' page in DevTools Settings, where you enter your Azure DevOps personal access token.](../../media/2022/03/ado-pat-devtools.png)

> See [Securely debug original code by publishing source maps to the Azure Artifacts symbol server](../../../javascript/publish-source-maps-to-azure.md).

Reviewer 5: Instead of just linking to this one doc, maybe link to all 3 that are related:
```suggestion
See:
- [Map the processed code to your original source code, for debugging](../../../javascript/source-maps.md),
- [Securely debug original code by publishing source maps to the Azure Artifacts symbol server](../../../javascript/publish-source-maps-to-azure.md).
- [Securely debug original code by using Azure Artifacts symbol server source maps](/javascript/consume-source-maps-from-azure.md).
```

Edge DevTools for Visual Studio opens, with the **Elements** tool selected:

![Microsoft Edge Developer Tools for Visual Studio: Elements tool of DevTools.](../../media/2022/03/devtools-extension-visual-studio-elements.png)

The **Network** tool is also open by default:

![Microsoft Edge Developer Tools for Visual Studio: Network tool of DevTools.](../../media/2022/03/devtools-extension-visual-studio-network.png)

The **Inspect tool** (![Inspect tool icon.](../../media/2022/03/v-s-edge-devtools-inspect-tool-icon.png)) and **Toggle screencast** (![Toggle screencast icon.](../../media/2022/03/v-s-edge-devtools-toggle-screencast-icon.png)) are available, and the **More Tools** (![More Tools icon.](../../media/2022/03/more-tools-v-s-icon.png)) menu offers the [Issues](../../../issues/index.md), [Network conditions](../../../network-conditions/network-conditions-tool.md), and [Network request blocking](../../../network-request-blocking/network-request-blocking-tool.md) tools.

See also:

* [Edge Developer Tools for Visual Studio (Preview)](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/visualstudio/?p=237066&preview=1&_ppp=7aa7aef54f), at Visual Studio DevBlogs.

> * [Edge DevTools extension for Visual Studio](../../../../visual-studio/index.md#edge-devtools-extension-for-visual-studio) in _Visual Studio for web development_.

Reviewer 5: I don't really get why this is italicized. If it's in our repo, then I'd recommend just doing:
```suggestion
* [Edge DevTools extension for Visual Studio](../../../../visual-studio/index.md#edge-devtools-extension-for-visual-studio).
```

Author: I will remove it but it is there for solid reason: because w/o it, the Content Developer (writer) can't tell where the link goes, while looking at .md tagging view.  Prevents being lost in navigation.  Warns author/reader where they'll end up after traversing the link: not an article's top, but an h2 halfway down in a page, which is not visibly clear after arrival, until scroll to top of the destination page - quite disorienting.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Layers in 3D View

<!-- Title: Layers in 3D View -->
<!-- Subtitle: The Layers tool isn't going away - find it in the 3D View tool today. -->

> We previously added an improved version of Layers in the **3D View** tool, and we're removing the stand-alone version (the **Layers** tool) after users have enough time to make the transition. The **Layers** tool will display a link that redirects you to the **Composited Layers** view within the **3D View** tool.  You can find all the functionality from the **Layers** tool there.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Since [Microsoft Edge 88](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/whats-new/2020/11/devtools#composited-layers-are-now-in-3d-view), the **3D View** tool has provided an improved version of the Layers tool. Now, in Microsoft Edge 99, the stand-alone Layers tool is being removed. The **Layers** tool will display a link that redirects you to the **Composited Layers** view within the **3D View** tool.  You can find all the functionality from the **Layers** tool there.
```

> In the following image, the **Focus Mode** UI is shown.  **Focus Mode** has a **Quick View** area at the bottom, in place of the **Drawer**.  The **Layers** tool, which is shown open in **Quick View**, contains only a link, to open the **3D View** tool above it:

Reviewer 5: Was using Focus Mode for this screenshot an intentional choice? I feel like it's unnecessarily verbose to talk about Focus Mode and Quick View when they're not really relevant to this announcement. I'd rather we just use the vanilla DevTools UI for this screenshot and draw the red highlight boxes around the Layers tool in the drawer

Author: The work item instructions specified Focus Mode as a means of showing old + new tool together but I think regular mode supports the same layout.  I mentioned my trying this, to mgmt today, and that I added the clarifying statement.  Will msg you + mgmt b/c this relates to timing decisions about screenshots standards/style guidelines.

Author: Re-created w/o focus mode

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Use your source maps to unminify performance profiles

<!-- Title: The Performance tool can now display unminified call stacks -->
<!-- Subtitle: Use the new Unminify button in the Performance tool to download an unminified version of the performance profile you recorded. -->

In previous versions of Microsoft Edge, recording a performance profile in the Performance tool would produce a minified call stack. The call stack was not using source maps, even if you hosted them on your server, to unminify the call stack.

Starting in Microsoft Edge version 99, you can unminify a call stack in a performance profile, as follows:
1. After recording a profile, in the **Performance** tool, click the new **Unminify** button.
1. Download the unminified performance profile.<!--how?-->
1. Import the unminified performance profile into the **Performance** tool.<!--how?-->

The **Unminify** button will use source maps, provided that they are hosted side-by-side with your production code, to unminify the call stack in the **Performance** tool.

> The minified call stack in the **Performance** tool shows function names as **b**, **O**, **Xt**, and **bn**:

Reviewer 5: What do you think about doing these 2 images side-by-side? Are we not doing side-by-side images any more? I feel like in this case, it might make it clearer what the changes are to the call stack but I'll defer to you

Author: https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/help/contribute/markdown-reference?branch=main#columns - "While the columns extension still works, we no longer recommend it for creating custom layouts. We've found that many custom column layouts have accessibility issues or otherwise violate Docs style guidelines. Don't create custom layouts. Use standard Docs features."

Side-by-side image presentation was implemented by :::image::: custom markup tagging.  To make the articles legible/readable by simply scrolling, instead of mode-switching to having to pop-out / zoom the images, and as part of the Initiative: _Improve the content authoring / Content Developer experience_, we switched from ::: custom markup tagging to standard Markdown tagging, and no longer use ::: column tagging or ::: image tagging.

Now we present content by figuring out ways to leverage simple standard Markdown as much as possible, rather than relying on custom markup and column layout and image taging.  eg one benefit of this is color syntax coloring of alt-text while authoring in .md files in VS Code, producing better alt-text.

> ![The minified call stack in the Performance tool.](../../media/2022/03/minified-call-stack-performance-tool.png)

Reviewer 5: Please crop the window title bar out of this screenshot. Here's an example of what the image should look like when cropped: 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/34316555/157146258-4b383113-0634-485f-abb7-550f678877a1.png)

Author: What is the motivation or objective for removing the title bar from these (the Light mode) captures?  If the objective is to not show the URL, I'd rather erase the URL from the title bar rather than erase the entire title bar.  If the objective is to never show title bars, we need to meet to set new conventions for screenshot standards for Win11 screenshots.

Author: @zoherghadyali  - Erased URL from the titlebar.  Sufficient?  Or is a requirement that the titlebar be entirely removed?
https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/whats-new/2022/03/devtools?branch=pr-en-us-1779#use-your-source-maps-to-unminify-performance-profiles

Reviewer 5: Works for me! Thanks Michael!

<!-- Image 1: Minified call stack in Performance tool
Navigate to: https://outlook-sdf.office.com/mail/
Open DevTools > Performance
Record a performance profile while scrolling through your inbox
Select a small section of the profile and look at the call stack       1380ms-1400ms
Draw red highlights around function names like n, O, i, Xt, Bn, Yn. It won't be these exactly in your screenshot but you can see these are minified function names
Remember the section of the profile that you are looking at
-->

The unminified call stack in the **Performance** tool now shows those functions labeled with meaningful names: **invokeFunc (b)**, **executeAction (O)**, **endBatch (Xt)**, and **runReactions (bn)**:

> ![The unminified call stack in the Performance tool.](../../media/2022/03/unminified-call-stack-performance-tool.png)

Reviewer 5: Please crop the title bar out of this screenshot as well

Author: Erased URL.  Is that sufficient, or must the titlebar be removed entirely?  
https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/whats-new/2022/03/devtools?branch=pr-en-us-1779#use-your-source-maps-to-unminify-performance-profiles

Reviewer 5: Works for me. Thanks Michael!

<!-- Image 2: Unminified call stack
Select the Unminify button
Save the unminified profile (it'll be in the .json file format) to your Downloads folder
Select Load profile and load the unminified perf profile you just downloaded
Select the same section of the profile you looked at in the first image
Draw red highlights around function names that should now be unminified. In my demo, 
Xt => endBatch
bn => runReactions
i => finalDispatch
 -->

See also:

* [Unminifying function names in DevTools performance profiles](https://blogs.windows.com/msedgedev/2022/02/03/unminifying-function-names-in-devtools-performance-profiles/) at the Microsoft Edge Blog.

> * [Unminify performance profiles (temp. PR link)](https://review.docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/evaluate-performance/unminify?branch=pr-en-us-1784).

Reviewer 5: I would prefer if we can land [this PR](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/1784) and then link to it from here but if we can't make it work in time, we can always add the link later and just have the link to the blog for now

Author: I did a rewrite, Writer/Editor pass, on that PR, have to fix a bold tag, wish to have Patrick's input on differentiation of benefits of source maps vs deminification vs ADO secure source maps server, in top of that article.  Near-ready to merge that PR.

<!-- todo: update from review.dmc to live url -->

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Improved accessibility for Network Console and 3D View

<!-- Title: Improvements for using assistive technology with DevTools -->
<!-- Subtitle: Screen readers now announce better information in the Network Console and 3D View tools. -->

In previous versions of Microsoft Edge, assistive technology announced incorrect information when providing a custom bearer token in the Network Console tool.  In Microsoft Edge version 99, this issue has been fixed.  When selecting the text box for providing a custom bearer token, assistive technology now announces "Token edit text Request View group".

![The Network Console tool.](../../media/2022/03/network-console-tool.png)
<!--
1. Open DevTools.
2. Press Ctrl+Shift+P and enter "Network Console".
3. Open the Network Console tool.
4. Select "Create a request".
5. Select "Auth".
6. Select "Bearer Token".
7. Draw a red highlight around the "Token" edit textbox.
8. If you can't see the "Token" edit textbox, drag the slider above "Hit 'Send' to issue the request" down to the bottom.
-->

> In previous versions of Microsoft Edge, assistive technology would only announce the radio button text in the 3D View tool, without announcing the group name that the button belongs to.  In Microsoft Edge version 99, this has been fixed.  For example, when focus is on the **Use screen texture** radio button, assistive technology will now announce: "Color type radio group, Use screen texture, radio button, unselected".

Reviewer 5: Maybe for this example about what assistive tech will announce, we should say "selected" since in the screenshot, that radio button is selected.
```suggestion
In previous versions of Microsoft Edge, assistive technology would only announce the radio button text in the 3D View tool, without announcing the group name that the button belongs to.  In Microsoft Edge version 99, this has been fixed.  For example, when focus is on the **Use screen texture** radio button, assistive technology will now announce: "Color type radio group, Use screen texture, radio button, selected".
```

Author: Your change makes more sense than what I copied from the work item.

![The 3D View tool.](../../media/2022/03/3d-view-tool.png)
<!--
1. Open DevTools.
2. Press Ctrl+Shift+P and enter "3D View".
3. Open the 3D View tool.
4. Select "DOM".
5. Draw a red highlight around the "Color type" section and all the radio buttons in that section.
-->

To learn more about how using assistive technology with DevTools, read [Navigate DevTools with assistive technology](../../../accessibility/navigation.md).

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Improved source folder tree in the Sources panel

> In the **Page** tab of the **Sources** tool, the tree of source folders is now improved, with less clutter in the naming and outline of folders.  Unneeded path prefixes such as "../" and "./" have been removed.  The tree structure has been simplified by merging equivalent duplicate folders.  This was done by normalizing the absolute source URLs in the source maps.

Reviewer 5: I don't think we need this detail about normalizing absolute source URLs. It feels to me like an implementation detail.
```suggestion
In the **Page** tab of the **Sources** tool, the tree of source folders is now improved, with less clutter in the naming and outline of folders.  Unneeded path prefixes such as `../` and `./` have been removed.  The tree structure has been simplified by merging equivalent duplicate folders. 
```
